# LIDAR_instrumentproject
Source Code for the LiLa instrument project team

The structure can be devided into 2 sections: Mechanical and Analytical 
    both sections work dependently 
    
 # Software system description 
The algorithm will be written into the Arduino UNO microcontroller. The Arduino UNO is not only able to provide an adequate memory, but is also compatible with the MATLAB code, by using the MATLAB Arduino package, an interpreter, which compiles MATLAB source code to C/C++ language provided on the MATLAB official site [6]. The package consists of two sections: mechanisms control and data analysis. In the mechanisms control, it is dedicated to controlling the motion of the servos to sweep in a linear scanning pattern mentioned in the mechanical design section Figure 5.6. It will also activate the LIDAR scanner as the servos are sweeping. That said, the sweep angle is specified in the project requirement 3.1.4. The data analysis section, on the other hand, takes the altitude data from the LIDAR scanner and combines it with coordinates of the scanning area in order to create each data point that will subsequently be stored in a mapping matrix. The data from the mapping matrix will then be transferred to the analysis and decision making function to give feedback to the end-users. 

Furthermore, the analysis function calculates the slope of a particular point in relation to its neighbour points from the relative altitude in the mapping matrix. The slope value gives the characteristics and features of the terrain such as craters, the inclination of the scanned region, rock size, and rock position. Regarding the hazards, the size of boulders must not be bigger than 5cm and terrain inclination must not be more than 5°. Then, the algorithm will decide where to land inside the scanned area. In addition to the analysis feedback and the concept description, it will create virtual grid cells and assign the value to each of those grid cells as either a “0” or “false” for an unlandable region and a “1” or “true”  for a landable region. When the feedback shows regions with values of “1” packed together, constructing a landing area that is larger than the landing area required for the spacecraft to land on, or the biggest available landing area, it will calculate the path information and send it to the landing system. If this analysis process is completed thoroughly, the system will recognize it as a “successful scan”. 
The aforementioned analysis process works in a loop with regard to the concept description section. Ultimately, this algorithm can be visualized as shown in the diagram below (Figure 5.6). 
